Hello again.
At the end of this lecture we will end up with exactly the same functionality as we have at the start
of the lecture that he is running around with our big old sword.
But we're going to be using scriptural objects for the data for our weapons.
And you've probably encountered scriptural objects from our introductory unity courses.
But if not just a reminder scriptural objects are a data container.
It's a way for us to keep a whole bunch of information for us it's going to be information about what
weapon so what damage does it do what animates override does it have what's the mesh.
In other words how does it look.
And we can contain all of that in an asset that lives within our project photo.
So we're going to start by within our combat folder creating a new class a right click Create C sharp
script and we will call this weapon.
We can open up our weapon in our weapon instead of deriving from model behavior.
We are going to delete everything in here.
We're going to create a script of an object.
Now Visual Studio code has a lovely auto complete here if we just start typing in scripts Bill all see
scripts will object if we click on that puts you in all of this information in here.
Now let's just grab all of our code in here.
Cut that out print a namespace so name space.
This is going to be RPG and Dot combat.
And then within our Kelly braces we will paste the thing that we cut before.
OK.
That looks nice and sweet.
So.
When we're creating a script table object it has this menu system.
See the phone aim is weapon and the menu name is RPG projects slash weapon.
I'm going to change from this weapon I'm going to change it to make new weapon.
I'm going to change RPG project to weapons.
OK.
You'll see what's going to happen in a moment our weapons slash make new weapon jump back over into
unity.
Now from anywhere now assets area I'm going to find my weapons folder and sword right click within our
menu.
Here we have this new create weapons make new weapon that I just added in my script a moment ago.
And we can call this while this will be sword so this is our script Apple object it's our sword script
table object which is a dot asset file.
So let's put a couple of things in.
I'm going to go and grab things from fighter.
We will grab the animator override controller just cut that and back over into weapon paste that in
Okay what else do we need to grab from fighter in here.
I'm also going to grab the weapon prefab so what we're doing here is grabbing anything that will change
based upon what particular weapon we are wielding so we want to have a different animation and we want
to have a different weapon.
We don't need to bring over for example the hand transform because the hand transform is going to be
the same whether it's a sword or whether it's a mace whether it's a spear.
So we don't need to bring that over.
And also in our weapons script here we want to spawn the weapon.
This is where we will actually instantiate it from this place I will make this a public method we'll
be calling it from fighter most likely public void spawn and we need to take in a couple of things we
already know what the weapon is we don't need to take that in when something causes we need to know
where.
So transform hand transform and we also need to take in the animators so we know where the animator
is located and a mater.
So those are the parameters we need to take in and then we're going to instantiate again the weapon
we've done this before I could have just copied over my code from fighter and messed around with it
but just typing this outside super clear and it's weapon prefab hand transform and then we as before
we want to override the animators or animator dot run time loops run time animated.
Controller equals weapon over ride so so far we're always looking for two things the animator override
and the weapon prefab and we are going to instantiate our weapon now over in fighter.
I'm going to scroll down to my spawn weapon method we no longer need to instantiate the weapon from
the fighter that will be instantiated from our weapon script from our weapon class.
But we need to do another couple of things here.
First of all up at the very top I'm going to create a new variable serialized field and I will call
this weapon.
So that's our weapon class were just created and we'll call it variable weapon and we will initialize
that at no.
So this means that the fighter at this stage we're hooking things up very manually we're going to get
a lot more organic equipment have pickups and all those kind of things in the future but for now we're
just saying hey.
Which weapon scriptural object.
Am I looking at.
So that's why we've got this field just here and down when we spawn weapon let's protect protect against
null so if weapon equals equals.
Now what are we gonna do.
We want to return now we still need to be getting our animator but the last line we need to update so
I'm gonna give you a challenge a bit of a different challenge here it's really just have you been following
along.
Does this make sense because I've jumped or ran a little bit pretty quickly.
I just want you to finish off what we need to do here in spawn weapon.
It's just a little bit of changing around of the code and then to go into the inspector and make sure
everything is hooked up correctly.
Oh I give you this is a slide actually tidy up our fighter class and then make sure all our relevant
fields have been assigned.
So there's your challenge.
That's a test to see that you've been following along and understanding what I've been talking about.
Champion take that on I'll see you back here in a moment.
Okay so the last thing we need to do in our spawn weapon instead of doing our runtime animator override.
Just here we instead are going to call weapon not spawn because this is where we know it's being instantiated
Now the weapons being instantiated in our weapons script and what do we need to pass in.
While it's telling us and transform and animator.
So we're going to pass in hand transform comma animator.
It's good when you use the same words makes sense.
Saved that up.
Make sure a weapon is saved up as well.
Jump over into unity.
Now we need to find the things that need to be hooked up.
We've got our sword scriptural object it's now looking for those serialized fields that we just created.
So it's looking for the weapon override us looking for the weapon.
You know what sort of weapon override this is animator override and I'm going to rename this F to an
animator over ride.
Okay I think that's gonna be much better animator override.
Great save that up.
And so we're taking in our animator override and we're taking our weapon prefab so the animator override
click on that.
We only have one the sword override controller and then our weapon prefab click on that.
It's gonna be sword the equipped sword.
Excellent.
Now the last thing we find our player jump on into the prefab for the player on the fighter script is
looking for the weapons or the script table object.
For now he's going to manually give it to it which is the sword but in the future we'll be out to update
that through a pick up and a few other things.
So I've given it the sword will save everything there back out of player click on play we'll see if
he has a sword in his hand but I he does indeed and that is being driven by our swords scripting object.
Okay.
So hopefully that makes sense.
That introduction to scripted objects as always if you've got any questions please do post them in our
forum.
In our discussions we love to hear from you particularly if we can help out and I will see you in the
next lecture.